+++
title = "The Lightning Conference 2019"
date = "2019-10-21"
topics = ["bitcoin"]
draft = true
+++
```pink
               ________
       z$$$$P /_  __/ /_  ___                     Berlin 2019
      d$$$$"   / / / __ \/ _ \
    .$$$$$"   / / / / / /  __/
   z$$$$$"   /_/ / / /_/\___/  __    __        _
  z$$$$P        / /   (_)___ _/ /_  / /_____  (_)___  ____ _
 d$$$$$$$$$$"  / /   / / __ `/ __ \/ __/ __ \/ / __ \/ __ `/
*******$$$"   / /___/ / /_/ / / / / /_/ / / / / / / / /_/ /
     .$$$" __/_____/_/\__, /_/_/_/\__/_/ /_/_/_/ /_/\__, /
    4$P"  / ____/___  ____  / __/__  ________  ____  ________
   z$"   / /   / __ \/ __ \/ /_/ _ \/ ___/ _ \/ __ \/ ___/ _ \
  zP    / /___/ /_/ / / / / __/  __/ /  /  __/ / / / /__/  __/
 z"     \____/\____/_/ /_/_/  \___/_/   \___/_/ /_/\___/\___/

```

tl;dr:\\
Talks were outstanding. \\
Awesome community centered about building stuff.\\
Spent only sats during three days.\\
Visited nice places and met original people.

---

I started writing this post in the Berlin Tegel airport.
Totally exhausted but with a lot of thought in mind.
The lightning conference was a success.
It was my first Bitcoin only conference and I feel like Alice waking up
after her rabbit hole dream.

During three days, I was completely in a different world, more
technical, more futuristic with really original, passionated and
passionating people. I cannot go into the details, but I wanted to give
my overall experience.

# Day 0 - The Meetup dev

Location: [AHOY](https://www.ahoyberlin.com/)

My plan landed the morning, at 9:00, and I went directly to the meetup.
The space was quite big but quickly crowded by nerds like me.
Dark clothes for the most, a Club Mate in one hand, the other with a
computer and asking the wifi code and a power plug.

As described in the invitation email, it was an open meetup without
any prior agenda, focused on technical questions around the
Lightning Network. We had tables to sit down and work on,
as well as a small area for impromptu talks, announcements or demos.
It was completely self-organized.

I attended the rust-lightning workshop organised by ariard.
The exercise consisted to clone a bootstrapping
[repository](https://github.com/ariard/hacking-rust-lightning)
become familiar with the library interfaces and write a minimal
implementation of a lightning client.
The lack of space in the main room droved us to work in front of
the bar. It was difficult to discuss in this area because of the
noise, but it was very instructive.

My check-in to the hotel was at 6:00pm. I left the space, took the
subway and get out to the nearest station. I could take the bus then, but I
wanted to look at the street of Berlin. Walking along a wall, thinking
of the Lightning, the exciting future to come, I noticed after several
hundred meters how long this wall was and the size of its paintings.

On a little sign, near the ground, was written: **Berliner Mauer**. \\
One month before its 30th anniversary, this wall did not catch my eyes. \\
The contemporary concrete and its cold appearance feels actual. \\
A rigid line separating families and friends feels actual.

The rain did not spoil the after-party, which was organised in
a nice pub [Hirsch & Hase](https://hirschundhase.de/), near the station
Voltastraße. Free Beer and free food ! But after hanging out with the
French people group, we decided to try the famous Room77 pub.

# Room 77 and the 600,000th block

Location: [Room77](http://www.room77.de/) - Graefestraße 77, Berlin

```pink
 ──▄▄█▀▀▀▀▀█▄▄─  Room77 is one of the first place in the world wich
▄█▀──▄─▄────▀█▄  accepted cryptocurrency payments.
█───▀█▀▀▀▀▄───█
█────█▄▄▄▄▀───█  A big Bitcoin sign in neon welcome you as you enter in
█────█────█───█  a warm room with a cypherpunk ambiance. Price is good
▀█▄─▀▀█▀█▀──▄█▀  and service is impeccable.
──▀▀█▄▄▄▄▄█▀▀──
```

We had a lot of fun in this pub, which is quite cosy and pleasant. It
was certainly the first and the last time we enjoyed it not overcrowded
by the thirsty lightning community. Paying with lightning was really
easy, a small machine displaying the qr-code was passing by the staff
who was totally used to handle this kind of transaction.

Coincidence or not it was the same night that the peer-to-peer
distributed timestamp server of the Bitcoin protocole would generate its
600 000th block, generating a computational proof of a chronological
order of transaction for thousand of peers of its network and anchoring
in time the issuance of 12.5 bitcoins inside the existing 18 millions.
We waited for it, drinking beers and discussing about mostly informatics
and community, refreshing some time a bright web page on our phone in
the subdued light of the pub.

We spent all our time in the bar until the 600 000th block happened,
local time was around 2am. We celebrated it with a round of applause and
a last drink, but tired by this long day I was happy to go to bed.

# Day 1 --

Talks, I attended:

- 10:10 Enterprise Lightning FTW - Jameson Lopp
- 10:30 Make me an offer: Next Level Invoicing - Rusty Russell
- 11:00 How much Better Could Lightning Be? - Fabrice Drouin
- 11:20 pAMP it - Conner Fromknecht
- 11:40 Of Channels, Flows and Icebergs - Christian Decker
- 12:00 LSAT: Your Ticket Aboard the Internet's Money Rails - Olaoluwa
    Osuntokun
- 13:30 Building a More Friendly Lightning User Experience - Will O'Beirne
- 13:50 Hedging the Chain - Jack Mallers
- 16:00 Lightning x Liquidity, Or A Financier's Guide to Staking Bitcoin - Lisa Neigut
- 17:00 Lightning integration in Electrum - Thomas Voegtlin


Jack Mallers was really impressive, the talk was not really technical
but it was a great explanation about financial tools.

Olaoluwa Osuntokun talks fast, it is a meme in the community, but
believe me or not even for a non english speaker like me all is
intelligible , and the quantity of relevant information, deep in detail
explanation of technical solution of complex problem is outstanding.

This first day, the main stage was very focused on technical part. It
was really refreshing to listen to passionated people with a clear
vision and even if all the audience and speakers have certainly a big
bias when it is about the Lightning Network, the general spirit was:
Congrats, the thing works, now we have a lot improvement to do.

Sadly, I could not enter in the sponsored party, not enough place was
reserved for the conference attended. The french group and I ended
again in Room77.

# Day 2 --

I spend more time on the second floor, playing with the hardware that
people brought to the conference. There was a lot of funny machines,
like a cocktail dispenser, beer taps, a polaroid camera, a blowing
bubble robot, all connected to the lightning network, accepting sats as
a price for the entertainment. Several companies exposed their products
like home hosting Bitcoin node hardware or cold storage solutions.
Around a big table with a screen at the end it, people were organizing
workshop about open source software.

In a medium sized space, the second stage was taking place without a big
scene only a projector and a microphone like a standard tech meetup.
The talks were great, I did not keep the list of the talk I attended but
it was really pleasant to have this dimension of presentation.
My favourite talk so far, was from Jonas Nick, cryptographer at
Blockstream, who explained in a very clear way how Schnorr signature and
Taproot will be used for the later improvements.

Someone in the french group had a contact with a member of the c-base
hackerspace and we were invited to visit it.

# c-base, a Raumstation unter Berlin

```

⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠋⠉⣀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄⢸⣿⣏⠉⠙⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⠟⠉⢉⡉⠙⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⠟⠉⢉⣹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠟⠋⢁⣀⠉⠛⢿⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄⣰⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠿⠿⠿⠿⢿⣿⣿⠄⢸⣿⣿⣿⣷⠄⢹⣿⣿⠃⢠⣾⣿⣿⣷⡀⢹⣿⣿⡇⢀⣾⡿⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡏⠄⣾⡿⠻⣿⡆⠈⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡀⠹⣿⣿⣿⠟⠄⣼⣿⣿⣶⣶⣶⣶⣾⣿⣿⡀⠸⣿⣿⣿⡿⠄⣼⣿⣿⡄⠘⢿⣿⣿⣿⡇⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣴⡿⠃⢠⣿⣿⣇⠄⢿⣷⣶⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣤⣀⡉⣁⣠⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣤⣀⢉⣁⣠⣴⣿⣿⣿⣿⣦⣀⠉⣿⣿⣷⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⢉⣀⣴⣿⣿⣿⣿⣦⣄⣈⣹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
```

[c-base](https://c-base.org) is the oldest crashed space station on earth.

After entering through a corridor worthy of being the decors of a remake
of 2001: a Space Odyssey, we were welcomed inside a big space which
walls coated with electronic cards, colored neons and LED pannels.
We drank a beer near a pub counter with

# Unstack sats

I have unstacked a lot of sats playing with the funny
hardware of the second floor, buying stickers, hot chocolate, coffee and
beer. The speed of transaction was very fast and with very few fee,
Although my Eclair Wallet has only two channels.

Spending everyday with my wallet contributed to the overall futuristic
atmosphere and it was a great reminder everyday that the technology
, people were actually talking is real, it exists and it grows.

```
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣤⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⠶⣶⠶⣶⡶⠶⠶⠶⠶⠶⠶⢦⡀⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄|---------------|-----|
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⡿⠈⠂⠉⠄⠄⠄⠄⠈⠄⠉⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| amount        | fee |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄|---------------|-----|
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠶⠶⠄⠄⠄⠄⠂⠶⠶⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 38 394,47     | 61  |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠶⠶⠄⠄⠂⠄⠂⠶⠶⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 30 8469       | 0   |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 101           | 1   |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠶⠄⠶⠄⠄⠄⠂⠉⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 226001        | 0   |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠈⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠶⠄⠶⠄⠄⠂⠂⠄⠂⠄⠄⠄⠄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 139 580,972   | 222 |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢀⠑⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 402,643       | 0   |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢀⣔⣥⣄⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣷⣦⣤⣐⡀⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 34 891,799    | 175 |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣤⣴⣿⣿⡿⣇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣿⣿⡿⠟⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 87 359,735    | 9   |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣰⣿⣿⣿⡟⠁⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠠⡶⠄⠄⠄⠄⢀⢀⢄⣤⡟⠉⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 80 374,362    | 402 |
⠄⠄⠄⠄⣼⣿⣿⣿⣿⠇⠄⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⢀⣴⣮⣧⣡⣶⣾⢻⣼⣫⢮⣿⣿⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 56 574        | 0   |
⠄⠄⠄⢰⣿⡿⢻⢽⣿⠄⣀⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⢸⣿⣛⣿⣼⣻⡾⣿⢿⡻⣿⡟⣯⣿⣦⣤⡆⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 45 258        | 0   |
⠄⠄⠄⣾⣿⡇⠄⠄⠘⣿⣿⣿⠄⠄⠄⢴⣿⠿⣿⡿⠿⣷⣻⣿⠵⣿⠻⢽⢷⣿⡿⠟⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 113 145       | 0   |
⠄⠄⠄⣿⣿⠛⠃⠄⠄⠈⣿⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣿⣇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄|---------------|-----|
⠄⠄⠄⣿⣿⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠸⣿⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣿⣴⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄| 1 130 551,981 | 870 |
⠄⠄⠄⣿⣿⣿⡂⠄⠄⠄⠄⣿⣤⠐⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣟⡿⠛⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⣿⣿⣿⣿⣆⠄⠄⠄⣿⣯⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣛⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡇⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣇⠄⠄⢹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠃⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⢠⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣦⡀⠄⠉⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠟⠁⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠜⠉⠟⠍⠻⢿⣿⣿⣿⡷⣆⠄⠄⠄⠈⢹⣿⡿⠃⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠈⠛⢿⣿⣿⡒⠄⠄⠄⠸⠋⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
```

At the current price: 83,37 euros

Shout out to the organizers, it was awesome.

