+++
title = "Bots missions"
date = ""
draft = true
toc = true
+++

Bots missions:

- multiply: invite other bots
- survive: stay undetected.
- grow: build reputation/followers count.
- act: be part of astrosurfing/harrasment/scam.

not all in the same time, bot can be
an invitation harvester and will not act,
a single use bot to harass an user.

Hypothesis:
multiply, survice, grow -> fully automated.
act -> Semi automated, human operator can intervene through bot account.

## 1. Act

### 1.1 Astrosurfing

Possible goals:
- reach maximum visibility for a specific content, the payload.
- distract

2 strategies:

- spread: post the same payload.
- intensify: repost and like a particular post.

Subgoal: Surf
- gain enough reach to get organic spread.
- Get threshold effect like being on front page, or top in feed.

### 1.2 Scam

Goal: make plateform user install virus, send money.

4 stategies:

- impersonation: get the name of someone famous.
- reputation squatting: answer with payload under a legit post.
- fake discussions: repost and like a particular post.
- private message

Scam generally requires "growth" from the bot account.

### 1.3 Harrasment

Strategy: Destroy targetted user experience with
insults, intimidation, notifications overflow.
Goal: user post less, sign off or delete account.

Strategy: Debate, discredit, distract from the targetted user message.
Goal: Reduce visibility or repution of content.

## 2. Growth

Strategies:

- bot can follow each other:
risk: easier for moderation team to cluster the bots.
- bot follow other user, user follow back.
- bot post some generic contents.
- Impersonation of famous user accounts.

## 3. Survive

Goals: Grow or multiply, be able to act multiple time.

- Mix follows of bots and humans.
- Mix operative action and benin action.
- Reduce action frequency

## 4. Multiply

Invite other bots and stay undetected.
